hello welcome everyone to the IVFs
Wheatley core implementation sync
I am ipfs zoom number two I will be your
host we are going to go around the room
and talk about important initiatives and
then less important initiatives they're
all important and then question sponsors
parking lot that kind of thing so
without further ado on to the high
priority initiatives upcoming and ship
releases are someone snuck in in front
of Joyce idea first new p2p talk to me
us the world tell us yeah so about 28
shipped last week on Friday we're gonna
put a official announcement today or
tomorrow I'll be tomorrow that includes
Pierce or updates and post or
persistence and that also includes pure
info deprecation um so we'll be getting
getting rid of that and that's that's
mostly it but there's more a little bit
more there if you want to look at it the
ability to listen and announce certain
addresses no announce that's all in
there so take a look let us know if you
have issues
incredible very excited about that
really I think it's gonna get much
smaller and faster right it's there it's
kind of great chaos ipfs shipped on
friday so we shipped version no point 46
the haggling feature of that was go okay
fess than 0.5 compatibility so they were
the a bunch of changes to the api's and
that kind of thing and those have all
been pulled across to JYP FS and the
HTTP client as well so everything is
100% compatible there's also a bug in
the pub/sub implementation which meant
you ever sowed into conditions you may
not be able to send messages so you
absolutely 100% want to upgrade to that
as soon as possible
that is it
as someone to tell us about then you rc4
go of you
well it's gonna come out later today
it's most of uh earlier just Friday got
a last-minute bug where we kick someone
disconnect reconnect and then forget all
their dresses and then we just second
try reconnect again people feel to it
yeah that is nothing so our bucks please
no box only features yes
content written also tell us about the
content retain initiative yeah so with
the second RC coming up this week we'll
just be working on testing of that also
working on in Turkish organically quick
migration script for supporting me
config and then just some miscellaneous
tht improvements in bug fixes cool
subdomain gateway yep so base 56
supports lunge 18 go IP first master I
believe and after discussing stuff with
Steven last week we said it to
reevaluate our splitting figs for
supporting long see IDs on subdomain
gateways so namely I've been running
that for a while and two significant
downsides which I believe defeat the
purpose of actually doing that on a
subdomain gateway so due to the fact
that it split into multiple labels there
it's impossible to get a TL TL s cert so
publix of the main gateways want to be
able to provide that content to people
and by that I mean if someone tries to
open it in regular user agent in a web
browser
they will always get this
teyla's error so it's like subdomain
gateways were created to improve
security in the browser context by
bringing origin so that's like one step
forward and then we take two steps back
by surfacing those TLS errors to user
and then there's a separate personal pet
peeve of of me myself and I try to copy
the CID from the URL it's surprisingly
difficult to find the dots to remove it
so that being said to encourage the
discussion we decided to like postpone
this just to be clear this is like this
this is not a problem with existing
defaults but we may run into that
problem if people try start using hash
functions which produce longer booty
hashes and in result that will result in
no longer see IDs so I closed the PR
which was splitting the the max length
of DNS label and I opened a draft to
evaluate a different approach when we
make a different trade-offs so details
on the I link the issue there it's
actually like PR but the code it's not
there yet just like a templates to start
the discussion but long story short the
idea is to make a different trade trade
off so instead we would prioritize
having TLS on public subdomain gateways
because that's effectively the
default way people who don't have
notified EFS support would use to access
IPS content and like being able to
access the content is more important in
that context then having like this
specific CID because if you are using a
public HCP gateway you actually need to
trust the Gateway to send you the
content you are not actually taking
advantage of Khan
addressing you are not like verifying
the payload you delegate that trust at
work to the public gateway so if you are
not able so the only purpose of
subdomain gateway at that point is to
give you access to the content and
that's not possible without TLS so the
idea here is to when someone tries to
open a very long CID
from a subdomain gateway using path we
would take the route lock and replace it
with the shorter one yes it's
effectively defeating the purpose of
longer see IDs but in this context of
someone accessing a public HTTP gateway
they don't have any security guarantees
provided by a BFS anyway and the point
here would be to at least provide access
to people and I will encourage everyone
interested in this on having a strong
opinions to comment on the PRI link
there is this a trail of worth doing or
do we simply say on subdomain gateways
we don't support C IDs longer than 63
because I don't believe at this point
splitting brings any benefit it actually
may even confuse people because the dns
would resolve and then people see TLS
error so that's where we are I'm not
sure if there should be like a separate
design discussion we probably could
bounce some ideas a synchronously on
that issue I just wanted to highlight
that's happening here all right let me
t-bone say I take a look at that issue
please do comment that is pretty
important stuff next on the initial list
is a bit swap updates yeah
so mostly responding to a few
that have been reported so one problem
we were having was that sometimes the
connection manager would prune a
connection where we were actually that
we're actually using to transfer data so
that should no longer happen and and
Stephen found a bug where we were if a
peer disconnected from us and then
reconnected it so I wouldn't notice so
we fixed that as well and then finally
we've just been doing some changes
around the way that we measure the
number of once
so we consider track that uh exactly
what bit swap is doing right moving on
to stream content based on cane research
and ingredients yeah
so I don't have a very good week a very
good - today's of work in I'm still
working on the additional tool that will
let me repeat Andrews experiment getting
open to get into a bun to mirror 120
terabytes
quickly ingested it into into thacker to
basically released its benefits as as
part of the inch right up and I'm hoping
to finish that today or history tomorrow
and yeah that's where I'm at no other
updates Oh
ma tell us what's going on in the world
of the breasts I've ever yeah we just
landed cat support for the end points
and via the UNIX FS implementation that
we're doing yet is next and due to some
substrate grant work that we're doing
we're going to get ad as well so that
should sort of complete the trifecta of
UNIX FS stuff and the sort of like
baseline endpoints that the user would
do so things are looking really good I
put in the notes the cat PR and I'm also
quickly adding a link to an issue that I
would like to invite all of you to
that's just sort of brainstorming future
work initiative there just to get some
input on the directions we might go we
got some input from Steven already by
email and there's stuff that we're
obviously sort of chewing on and
thinking about ourselves but just feel
free to come and share your thoughts
that's all for us a note on the ad work
site pretty much did a lot of these like
extracting pieces from what might be
addressed us into a simpler form reach
out to me if you need help or pointers
or whatever yeah definitely and thank
you for your input already on the 174
limit thing already well we're looking
at that too thank you really
no mr. Vash can I tell us about
historians yeah so as Jacob said 28 its
shipped it basically comes with all the
improvements that we were planning on
doing for this first iteration and this
was also already integrated in jessup FS
today and it will be available for a BFS
users in the next release so yeah I
think we can finally close this
initiative amazing talking of
initiatives that can be closed I think
yeah I think you can come close the
council will request one as well paying
the person accountable and yeah here any
kind of interesting thing was takings
here these are the one less than that
shipped in 45 so no update on the
council requests and I think it can come
out of the notes for the next meeting
next up is Jerry slippery to be run by
Buddha yes so basically I started
working on the protocol because we have
experienced some people having issues
related to a new versions of ipfs and
will it be in the browser this was
basically a consequence of the
deprecation of and so basically the goal
is for us from from the next room
hopefully the next recipe to basically
just use the render for protocol and the
service relay and after that starts
getting rid of the need for the start
servers at least in the WebSockets side
will need to improve upon and WebRTC
first yeah so I got an initial
implementation in APR which is ready for
the view and meanwhile ice also started
working on the lipid peacetime records
as this will be also a requirement for
the Hindi fluent for the gossips 1.1
improvement so that we can share your
records securely
across the network and yeah that's good
some sauce
finishes off the main initiatives so
moving on to the other initiatives UNIX
is best view on point five into IP
offense now I played their migration of
mods first keys in the block store is
the same as last week still worked on
the roof of migration tool I'm guessing
there's no nothing from Goro PFS okay
pending system revamp is the same still
working on the migration tool had a
super tedious thing with index DP
closing transactions and when my current
task queue is empty and things that look
like they should work that won't working
but I have made some progress on that so
that should actually start moving which
is great shed I give us no it's goes on
up everyone I added this to the agenda
if this seems like nothing should
individual efforts get on the list
so I mean pursuing implementing the same
origin sharing node for browsers I got a
dog API implemented and half of the
tests are passing interface tests
however I run into certain roadblocks
one of them being how the doc PB is
implemented I worked on implementing
changes sent said sort of tries to
bridge between where IPL the team is
going in the future and where we are
today it's in the PR it's been verified
that it passes all the tests at worser
and all the years activists are also
encompassing and seem to see no
difference so if we can land those and I
will be able to make even more progress
sister Colby try to figure out all their
other 50% of tests that are not passing
right now very stuff and yeah well done
take initiative and just putting your
initiative in the initiative this is
great that I believe is the end of the
other initiatives next up is design
review proposals anybody want to have a
bike chilling discussion as long as it's
blue it doesn't matter well I mean you
say that like have you considered making
it green
what if it's a bike shed I mean you hang
away you clean are you exactly
sorry you don't leave now okay blacas
asks who is blonde amazing if if for
some reason somebody knows where the
Lupita P DHT stats are collected like
where what the machine is that runs the
code so that I can look at exactly what
versions of dependency that's running
that would be cool but he knows nobody
knows but if you hear a rumor of someone
who knows some of my way because nobody
knows the person who'd know be charming
okay all right doesn't it help
no nope so we have an old stats machine
somewhere in the ether there are many
components are supposed to get them sort
of in one place so that people can
reason about them more effectively can
we at least ping this machine yeah I
know it's ping a ball we could probably
find you know where it's being posted
but you know its network address just
know where it exists
I can go I am fourteen maybe they might
know questions who has questions
actually if you know where would they be
addresses you can polish them into
Jeremy can obviously to the machine
parking lot based Isaac's yd4 issue
seems to have stood next steps other
stakeholders and we never went anywhere
with that and now with libels work it
might become even less important
although no whistle is I'm gonna
try I think it's still relevant i I
think we think last time otaku Steven
and we agreed to move this long she IDs
decisions to 0.7 and for now we are just
landing page 46 support so there's like
a no one release overlap so it's like at
least one really supported and then we
can make the decision so yeah that was
that was always that was always the plan
is more that's going to be a decent
amount of work if we decide to you know
by default to 36 so from that
perspective yeah I think it it depends a
lot of our decision on long see IDs
[Music]
we'll see I I'd like to to make decision
there and to frame the decision around
the fact either we support them with TLS
or we simply don't support them on
subdomains and say you need to use path
gateway if you want to use long hashes
and that would be already commented on
this issue but other other views are
welcome because my view is not very
positive oh no no I totally agree that's
the significant trade of both cost of
republishing and changing the MU T hush
it's the price we would have to pay to
have TLS working on some time and so
that's just a decision to make and it
unless there's a more like concerns we
did not see that's why I laugh more and
more eyes on that before we make a
decision probably I will make may be
called but like next week to give him
more time for people to think about this
because it's yeah a change of approach
I'd say maybe a stupid question about
subdomain things is the like canonical
representation of an IP FS URL plan to
continue to be the path and then it will
just redirect or was the plan to like
have the canonical encoding be the
subdomain then well if we if we are
talking about ipfs URI right if we talk
about that then the URI is just like
protocol colon slash slash CID
whatever type of CID you put because you
are no longer limited by the DNS spec at
that point when you have your own
protocol handler so subdomains only
matter when you use HTTP for interrupt
because then you hit DNS and you also
hit public key infrastructure for serves
when we use our own protocol handler
that's not an issue and I don't believe
yes that does the thing I don't want us
to make decisions or changes to the
default if we if that only impacts of
the main gateways I think here that kind
of surfaced recently is that you are
eyes not URLs but you arise are somewhat
infected by the DNS limitation in
parcels in general so even though you
are eyes are not genus bound a lot of
parsers like for example slack or you
know what whatever there is a highlight
for not pastes and so on and so forth
how to recognize a URI they even though
they have nothing to do with DNS they're
still limited to 63 characters between
dots so that's something that we need to
um hello related question so I
understand the CDs part here but does
that somehow up effects I can ask as
well or you might have a case unrelated
to the block in which case I think the
solutions that you're proposing may not
necessarily apply you mean look for IP
NS we still got other identifiers which
make which can be longer so yeah that's
why I'm asking
yeah so the encoding change would not
necessarily fix that problem them oh
like specifically for EDD 255 19 if we
encode that in base 46 that fits in the
single label so actually for for IP NS
with in line in line keys we got a fix
but if you use a longer one then it no
it's no longer in line in it's like any
other content on ipfs and it's the same
situation of as it with regular series
then this kinda comes back to why would
you use a longer cache and what kind of
assumptions we make by you know what
kind of guarantees does this give you
and how much of this guarantees are we
allowed to break kind of things so let's
other questions sometimes a lot over on
my issue people are leaving because we
are out of time thank you very much
everyone this has been the computations
weekly sync from under their to June
2020 stay safe out there
see you next week bye